Throughout the creation of Deck of Doom, we learnt a vast amount about software development. We developed the necessary skills to work effectively in a team. We maintained good communication throughout the project through the use of WhatsApp, GitHub as well as weekly meetings. We developed an in-depth knowledge of evaluation techniques both qualitative and quantitative, which was essential in making sure our game met our user requirements.  Indeed, we used the Think Aloud technique, which gave us an insight into the user experience of the game. We also used the NASA Task Load Index and the System Usability questionnaires. The detailed user feedback we received drove the next few stages of development as we knew which features needed improving and what features needed to be implemented next.  

We used an agile development methodology when developing Deck of Doom. We therefore had iterative progress, implementing features in sprints and carrying out user testing that would result in further development of the game. However, it could have been useful to use the Planning Poker technique in order to estimate the effort required to complete different features of the game. This would have allowed us to manage the timeline of the project more effectively.

Whilst creating Deck of Doom, we came across multiple challenges that required creative solutions as well as constant communication as to how to best solve our issues. Firstly, we had to decide how to efficiently create, load and display game assets especially as we lacked 2D art skills. We had to develop flexible and balanced combat/encounter design. Furthermore, we had to consider how to best integrate game states together. In this case, we choose to create a stack-based game state system with each state receiving a reference to the top-level Game Engine object. This allowed for a smooth transition between the different game states. 

On reflection, we could have also dealt better with the fact that we had numerous deadlines in the same time period as the game development. However, we were able to reschedule certain tasks and ensure every task was still completed. Moreover, we could have implemented game-jam sessions earlier on in the development process. Initially as a team, we struggled to smoothly transition between different game states perhaps as we were working on game states individually. After doing in-person sessions we had a greater sense as to how to solve this issue. 

If we were to develop this game further in the future, we would be keen to make the game multiplayer. For the map state, it would be useful to add more nodes that would allow the user to play casino-style mini games i.e. where you can bet money to get more cards. We would also make the game more flexible so that you could have different card effects and enemy behaviours. In addition, we would develop different characters in the game that play differently from each other.  

As a team we have gained a lot of useful experience from following the various stages of developing this game from conceptualising the game idea to the requirements, the design and evaluation of the game.  This will provide an invaluable template for designing software in the future. 



