# Meeting Summary

* In this meeting we finalised our decision of which game idea to pursue and unanimously
agreed to go with the card game idea which Ricardo has proposed.

* Having made this decision, we discussed how the idea could perhaps be simplified
somewhat in the face of some feedback we received during the paper prototyping
workshop that the idea was perhaps on the more complex side in comparison to others.

    On this point, it was suggested that we could make the game map
    shorter/smaller or simplify the size of the deck of cards in order
    to streamline our implementation of the game.

* We also clarified among ourselves what the key twist of our final game idea
would be, namely a system of action points that would have an effect over player
movement.

    On this point, we considered how this twist might be difficult for non-gamers
    to understand and how we could make this simpler to understand.

* We agreed on a more concrete framework of what sort of game states /
screens we'd have. These included the main menu screen, main gameplay
screen, a victory / loss screen and potentially a help / tutorial
screen.

* We agreed that the nature of our game meant that implementing
multiplayer would likely be infeasible, or at least that
multiplayer would have to be an entirely separate gamemode from
that which was originally proposed.

* We discussed the possibility and relative ease with which we could
implement another difficulty mode to the game.

* We outlined a few ideas of requirements and user stories, as well as who
we think some of our key stakeholders might be. These included:
    - Card game fans
    - Gamers generally