Working as a team

The team used the Software Engineering labs as well as weekly in-person meetings to check in on our progress as a team. We used these meetings to identify anything we needed to clarify. We decided as a team what the essential game states that needed to be achieved for a minimum viable product were and what other game states could be completed later on for the final version of the game. On reflection it would have been useful to organize an in-person meeting just before the Easter holidays to ensure we all had a clear idea on what we should working on each week of the holidays. However, we were still able to communicate this effectively throughout the holidays using Whatsapp and Github to ensure we all knew what needed to be achieved. 
In order to communicate, we set up a WhatsApp group chat where we organized in-person meetings. It was also used to check in with each other to assess our progress as a group. IN addition, it was used for suggesting any small tweaks that needed to be made to the project. 


Tools used
The tools we used included GitHub in order to host and collaborate on the project. Each member used different branches for each feature of the game i.e. using a branch specifically for the menu state. This meant we always had a working version of the game on the main branch. We made great use of GitHub to submit pull requests to review each other’s code. This allowed team members to provide input on different features of the game. We therefore ensured that we were all aligned in terms of how we wanted to implement the different features of the game. In addition, using pull requests allowed any merge conflicts to be reviewed and resolved before being pushed to the main branch. 

We knew that we potentially had a game that would be relatively complex to create due to there being multiple game states that would need to be implemented. Therefore, it was essential to use a Kanban board to keep track of all the different features we wanted to develop and ensure that they could be completed in the given timeframe of the project. As a team, we divided the workload into different features/game states that needed to be completed. We then delegated different game states to each team member. This meant that each team member had a clear idea of what they should be working on. The Kanban board enabled us to keep track of the different tasks delegated to each member. On reflection, perhaps we could have used the Kanban board more effectively by breaking up the tasks into smaller sub-tasks. For example, creating a task for creating a shop state could have been broken up into the smaller tasks within this state. This would have given a greater sense of the progress that had been made.



Team roles
We divided the workload of the game according to the different game states. Sam worked on the overall structure of the game i.e. implementing the game engine as well as working on the combat state. Ricardo created the map state and worked on visual assets for the game such as the cards. Lanai worked on the end state of the game. Jasmine created the shop state. Zhuoli created the menu as well as creative assets for the game such as the cards.  


Reflection on working together

Following the project schedule of the unit, we initially concentrated on creating a minimal viable product. One of the challenges we had was getting a minimum viable prototype working. This meant that we were at further behind. Indeed, it was initially challenging to carry out user testing of the game during the software engineering labs. Instead, we resorted to presenting paper prototypes of our game to users. This meant we still received user feedback and a greater understanding of the Think Aloud and Heuristic Evaluation techniques. We were then able to use these tests later on a far more developed version of the game.  Perhaps we faced challenges with getting the minimum viable product working due to the fact that we were working on features individually. This made it more difficult to ensure smooth transitioning between the different game states. To resolve this issue, we carried out game-jam sessions, which helped us make effective progress on the game. Having an in-person session meant that we were more aligned on how we wanted to transition between different game states. Indeed, one of the issues that we had was that we were not effectively using the game engine one of our team members had created. Yet after having in-person coding sessions, we could ensure we were all using this correctly. 


