Ideation, Use-Cases and User Stories

We had a brainstorming session in which we came up with ideas and then narrowed these down to 2 ideas which was agreed upon by the whole team. The two ideas that were decided upon were a first person dungeon crawler game and a turn based card game.We collected requirements for both the games. We paper prototyped /created a powerpoint representation for both ideas. This enabled us to develop the flow of the game and provided a foundation for generating user stories and use cases. After showing our prototypes to other groups - we initially had some feedback that the flow of the game was complicated. This encouraged us to have a more precise idea of what the potential user journeys could be and how we could cut down any unnecessary complexity in the game. 
After generating user stories for the turn based card game - we were encouraged to develop a more specific idea of who the user potentially could be. This resulted in us considering a user story in which the user is a novice and requires a tutorial and an easy level in the game. Developing the use cases for the game enabled us to have a far clearer understanding of the sequence of steps our user will follow to complete the game as well as any alternative paths the user might take. The idea we decided to implement is a turn based card game as we felt it would more feasible to implement the game in 2D. The game involves having a player who battles opponent and earns points. The actions that the player takes against the opponent is decided by the cards generated.The players' goal is to collect action points and items, and use these action points to climb the tower to the top. The game is inspired by games such as Slay the Spire and Hearthstone. The twist of our game is that the player can use action points to have movement along the map . Furthermore, they can trade their action points for more health points. 

